# EGCG

We planned to develop a web application that compares the fundamental features of the ECGC compound and its different subcompounds. The application uses HTML (Hypertext Markup Language), CSS (Cascading Style Sheets), and Bootstrap to allow the user to pick the sub compound to be compared with EGCG via two drop downs and a button. Compounds like Bromine, Chlorine, Fluorine, Iodine, NH2, NO2 can be added into the EGCG molecule at locations C-6 and C-8. Position and the compound to be injected into the EGCG are values to be picked from the drop down menu. HTML is the most commonly used markup language for Web pages. The CSS language is used to style an HTML document. The most popular HTML, CSS, and JavaScript platform for constructing responsive, web applications is Bootstrap.

A total of 12 compounds can be selected by the user and we have named the compound from 1-12 with a prefix S. For example, S1. After the user selects the compound to be compared, the application gets navigated to another page where the actual comparison of two compounds is shown. Bootstrap cards is used to display the comparison. The page shows the chemical structure of the compound selected by the user and also two bar plots for comparison.The first plot (fig1_1) shows the docking values for the EGCG and sub compounds. The x-axis shows the compounds and the y-axis shows the docking values. The bars are colored according to the compound.The second plot (fig1_2) shows the bioactivity scores for the EGCG and sub compounds for two different bioactivities: HMOX1 expression enhancer and antioxidant. The x-axis shows the bioactivities and the y-axis shows the bioactivity scores. The plot has two bar groups, one for each compound. The bars within each group show the scores for the two bioactivities.Overall, these plots allow you to compare the docking values and bioactivity scores for the EGCG and sub compounds, and can help you understand the relative strengths and weaknesses of these compounds in terms of their potential medicinal properties.These two bar plots are created in python using Plotly library with Plotly Express (First Plot) and Plotly Graph Objects (Second Plot).

The properties taken into consideration for comparison is docking score, HMOX1 expression enhancer, antioxidant, AMES toxicity, Hepato toxicity. If the selected substance is toxic, the background colour will be red; otherwise, the background colour will be green.We utilised an HTML style tag function to do this. A JQuery button provided within the bootstrap card allows the user to study the two bar plots for comparative reasons.

All the data is stored and retreived using MySQL Database. MySQL uses a querying language called SQL (Structured Querying Language) which is used to store, view and manipulate data in the MySQL server. The database consist of 12 columns (comp_name, position, compound, image, docking, hmox, antiox, ames, hepato, comp1, comp1.1). For retreiving and displaying the data we have used PHP (Hypertext Preprocessor). PHP connects the frontend (User Interface) and database (MySQL server). 
